An aggregation is a specialized form of Association where all object has
their own lifecycle but there is ownership and child object can not
belong to another parent object. Let's take an example of Department and
teacher. A single teacher can not belong to multiple departments, but if
we delete the department teacher object will not destroy.

Aggregation can be defined as the relationship between two classes where
the aggregate class contains a reference to the class it owns.
Aggregation is best described as a has-a relationship. For example, The
aggregate class Employee having various fields such as age, name, and
salary also contains an object of Address class having various fields
such as Address-Line 1, City, State, and pin-code. In other words, we
can say that Employee (class) has an object of Address class. Consider
the following example.

Address.java

public class Address {

> String city,state,country;

> public Address(String city, String state, String country) {

> > this.city = city;

> > this.state = state;

> > this.country = country;

> }

}

Employee.java

public class Emp {

> int id;

> String name;

> Address address;

> public Emp(int id, String name,Address address) {

> > this.id = id;

> > this.name = name;

> > this.address=address;

> }

> void display() {

> > System.out.println(id+\" \"+name);

> > System.out.println(address.city+\" \"+address.state+\"
> > \"+address.country);

> }

> public static void main(String\[\] args) {

> > Address address1=new Address(\"gzb\",\"UP\",\"india\");

> > Address address2=new Address(\"gno\",\"UP\",\"india\");

> > Emp e=new Emp(111,\"varun\",address1);

> > Emp e2=new Emp(112,\"arun\",address2);

> > e.display();

> > e2.display();

> }

}

Output

111 varun

gzb UP india

112 arun

gno UP india