The java.sql package contains following interfaces and classes for JDBC
API.

Interfaces:

- Connection: The Connection object is created by using
  getConnection() method of DriverManager class. DriverManager is the
  factory for connection.

- Statement: The Statement object is created by using
  createStatement() method of Connection class. The Connection
  interface is the factory for Statement.

- PreparedStatement: The PrepareStatement object is created by using
  prepareStatement() method of Connection class. It is used to execute
  the parameterized query.

- ResultSet: The object of ResultSet maintains a cursor pointing to a
  row of a table. Initially, cursor points before the first row. The
  executeQuery() method of Statement interface returns the ResultSet
  object.

- ResultSetMetaData: The object of ResultSetMetaData interface cotains
  the information about the data (table) such as numer of columns,
  column name, column type, etc. The getMetaData() method of ResultSet
  returns the object of ResultSetMetaData.

- DatabaseMetaData: DatabaseMetaData interface provides methods to get
  metadata of a database such as the database product name, database
  product version, driver name, name of the total number of tables,
  the name of the total number of views, etc. The getMetaData() method
  of Connection interface returns the object of DatabaseMetaData.

- CallableStatement: CallableStatement interface is used to call the
  stored procedures and functions. We can have business logic on the
  database through the use of stored procedures and functions that
  will make the performance better because these are precompiled. The
  prepareCall() method of Connection interface returns the instance of
  CallableStatement.

Classes:

- DriverManager: The DriverManager class acts as an interface between
  the user and drivers. It keeps track of the drivers that are
  available and handles establishing a connection between a database
  and the appropriate driver. It contains several methods to keep the
  interaction between the user and drivers.

- Blob: Blob stands for the binary large object. It represents a
  collection of binary data stored as a single entity in the database
  management system.

- Clob: Clob stands for Character large object. It is a data type that
  is used by various database management systems to store character
  files. It is similar to Blob except for the difference that BLOB
  represent binary data such as images, audio and video files, etc.
  whereas Clob represents character stream data such as character
  files, etc.

- SQLException It is an Exception class which provides information on
  database access errors.