Some of the important advantages of Hibernate framework over JDBC are:

- Hibernate removes a lot of boiler-plate code that comes with JDBC
  API, the code looks cleaner and readable.

- Hibernate supports inheritance, associations, and collections. These
  features are not present with JDBC API.

- Hibernate implicitly provides transaction management, in fact, most
  of the queries can't be executed outside transaction. In JDBC API,
  we need to write code for transaction management using commit and
  rollback.

- JDBC API throws SQLException that is a checked exception, so we need
  to write a lot of try-catch block code. Most of the times it's
  redundant in every JDBC call and used for transaction management.
  Hibernate wraps JDBC exceptions and throw JDBCException or
  HibernateException un-checked exception, so we don't need to write
  code to handle it. Hibernate built-in transaction management removes
  the usage of try-catch blocks.

- Hibernate Query Language (HQL) is more object-oriented and close to
  Java programming language. For JDBC, we need to write native SQL
  queries.

- Hibernate supports caching that is better for performance, JDBC
  queries are not cached hence performance is low.

- Hibernate provides option through which we can create database
  tables too, for JDBC tables must exist in the database.

- Hibernate configuration helps us in using JDBC like connection as
  well as JNDI DataSource for the connection pool. This is a very
  important feature in enterprise application and completely missing
  in JDBC API.

- Hibernate supports JPA annotations, so the code is independent of
  the implementation and easily replaceable with other ORM tools. JDBC
  code is very tightly coupled with the application.