Concept: C++: \"Write once, compile everywhere.\"; Java: \"Write once,
run everywhere.\" That is, unlike the above, C++ turns to OS and
architecture specific machine code.

Language compatibility: C++ was created as an object-oriented extension
of C, i.e. you can use C libraries and write C code in C++ (the reverse
is not true), but many high-level programming languages support C++,
e.g. Java. Java is not typically supported by other languages, except of
course for languages running on the JVM, e.g. Kotlin.

System libraries: C++ can natively handle OS system libraries, so C++
programs can take better advantage of the OS's capabilities. While in
the case of Java, the Java Native Interface can help achieve the same,
accessing system libraries natively with stock libraries is not
possible.

Characteristics: C++ does not force either procedural or object-oriented
programming, although both are supported. Since C++ is native code, we
must take care of freeing up the heap content (allocated with \"new\"
operator) space. For Java, all code must be part of a class, and freeing
up unnecessary memory space is always automatic (garbage collection).

Semantics of types: in C++, primitive types and objects work the same
way from the memory perspective. In Java, primitive types are found in
the stack, classes are always derived from the \"Object\" class, also
objects are always addressed by references and are found on the heap.

Interpreted/compiled: Java is also commonly referred to as a compiled
(Java code -> JVM bytecode) and interpreted (bytecode run by JVM)
language, while C++ is strictly a compiled (C++ code -> machine code)
language.

Inheritance: While C++ allows a class to have multiple inheritances,
Java doesn't to avoid the diamond problem.

Comparison Index|C++|Java
-|-|-
Platform-independent|C++ is platform-dependent.|Java is platform-independent.
Mainly used for|C++ is mainly used for system programming.|Java is mainly used for application programming. It is widely used in window, web-based, enterprise and mobile applications.
Design Goal|C++ was designed for systems and applications programming. It was an extension of C programming language.|Java was designed and created as an interpreter for printing systems but later extended as a support network computing. It was designed with a goal of being easy to use and accessible to a broader audience.
Goto|C++ supports the goto statement.|Java doesn't support the goto statement.
Multiple inheritance|C++ supports multiple inheritance.|Java doesn't support multiple inheritance through class. It can be achieved by interfaces in java.
Operator Overloading|C++ supports operator overloading.|Java doesn't support operator overloading.
Pointers|C++ supports pointers. You can write pointer program in C++.|Java supports pointer internally. However, you can't write the pointer program in java. It means java has restricted pointer support in Java.
Compiler and Interpreter|C++ uses compiler only. C++ is compiled and run using the compiler which converts source code into machine code so, C++ is platform dependent.|Java uses compiler and interpreter both. Java source code is converted into bytecode at compilation time. The interpreter executes this bytecode at runtime and produces output. Java is interpreted that is why it is platform independent.
Call by Value and Call by reference|C++ supports both call by value and call by reference.|Java supports call by value only. There is no call by reference in java.
Structure and Union|C++ supports structures and unions.|Java doesn't support structures and unions.
Thread Support|C++ doesn't have built-in support for threads. It relies on third-party libraries for thread support.|Java has built-in thread support.
Documentation comment|C++ doesn't support documentation comment.|Java supports documentation comment (/** ... */) to create documentation for java source code.
Virtual Keyword|C++ supports virtual keyword so that we can decide whether or not override a function.|Java has no virtual keyword. We can override all non-static methods by default. In other words, non-static methods are virtual by default.
unsigned right shift >>>|C++ doesn't support >>> operator.|Java supports unsigned right shift >>> operator that fills zero at the top for the negative numbers. For positive numbers, it works same like >> operator.
Inheritance Tree|C++ creates a new inheritance tree always.|Java uses a single inheritance tree always because all classes are the child of Object class in java. The object class is the root of the inheritance tree in java.
Hardware|C++ is nearer to hardware.|Java is not so interactive with hardware.
Object-oriented|C++ is an object-oriented language. However, in C language, single root hierarchy is not possible.|Java is also an object-oriented language. However, everything (except fundamental types) is an object in Java. It is a single root hierarchy as everything gets derived from java.lang.Object.
